GraphQL API Testing Checklist


Reconnaissance

    Perform a port scan using Nmap to identify open web application ports.
    Scan the web server for GraphQL endpoints by using Graphw00f’s detection mode.
    Perform server fingerprinting with Graphw00f’s fingerprint mode.
    Search for server-level vulnerabilities on MITRE’s CVE database.
    Search for server-level security features on GraphQL Threat Matrix.
    Search for GraphQL IDEs such as GraphiQL Explorer or GraphQL Playground by using EyeWitness.
    Send an introspection query and document all available queries, mutations, and subscriptions.
    Visualize the introspection query response with GraphQL Voyager.

Denial of Service

    Review the API’s SDL file for bidirectional relationships.
    Test for the following:
        Circular queries or mutations
        Circular fragments
        Field duplication
        Alias overloading
        Directive overloading
        Array-based or alias-based query batching
        Object limit overriding in API pagination arguments such as filter, max, limit, and total

Information Disclosure

    Extract the GraphQL schema by using field stuffing when introspection is disabled.
    Identify debug errors in query responses by sending malformed queries.
    Identify query tracing in GraphQL responses.
    Test for any PII submitted using queries over the GET method.

Authentication and Authorization

    Test access to the following:
        The API without authentication headers
        Restricted fields by using alternate paths
        The API by using both the GET and POST methods
    Test signature validation in JSON Web Token (JWT).
    Attempt to brute-force mutations or queries that accept secrets, such as tokens or passwords, using the following:
        Alias-based query batching
        Array-based query batching
        CrackQL
        Burp Suite

Injection

    Test for injection in the following:
        Query arguments
        Field arguments
        Query directive arguments
        Operation names
    Test for SQLi automatically by using SQLmap.
    Test for OS command injection automatically by using Commix.

Forging Requests

    Test for the following:
        The existence of anti-CSRF tokens in HTTP headers or bodies
        Possible anti-CSRF token bypasses
        The availability of GET-based queries
        Support for GET-based mutations
    Perform state-changing mutations over GET.
    Perform state-changing mutations over POST.

Hijacking Requests

    Identify whether the GraphQL server does the following:
        Supports subscriptions
        Validates the Origin header during a WebSocket handshake
